# Data Encryption and sensitive information (video transcription)

### Introducing
Hello everyone. My name is Artsiom and I am a student in Rolling Scope platform. I want to introduce the next topic: “Data Encryption and sensitive information”. A deploy link to this presentation and transcription I attached under this video. Let’s go;

### What is data encryption?
I want to start from definition of data encryption. What is it? 
Data encryption is a method of protecting data by encoding it in such a way that it can only be decrypted or accessed by an individual who holds the correct encryption key. When a person or entity accesses encrypted data without permission, it appears scrambled or unreadable. 
In simple words,  Data encryption translates data into another form, or code, so that only people with access to a secret key or password can read it.

### How does it work?
The data that needs to be encrypted is termed plaintext or cleartext. The plaintext needs to be passed via some encryption algorithms, which are basically mathematical calculations to be done on raw information. There are multiple encryption algorithms, each of which differs by application and security index.
Apart from the algorithms, one also needs an encryption key. Using said key and a suitable encryption algorithm, the plaintext is converted into the encrypted piece of data, also known as ciphertext. Instead of sending the plaintext to the receiver, the ciphertext is sent through insecure channels of communication.

### The Importance of Data Encryption
Encryption is important to every business today because it enables them to protect confidential data. Encryption makes it nearly impossible for cybercriminals or other unauthorized parties to steal and misuse the data since only those with an encryption key can decipher the data and reveal the true information.
The importance of encryption cannot be understated in the slightest because even the biggest corporations with the largest cybersecurity budgets fall victim to data breaches. That being said, even if your data is in a secure infrastructure, there is still a chance that your data could be compromised. With data encryption, however, your files can be that much more impenetrable even if they were stolen.

### Types of Data Encryption
Now, let’s talk about types of data encryption. There are several data encryption approaches available to choose from. Most internet security professionals break down encryption into three distinct methods: symmetric, asymmetric, and hashing. 

### Symmetric Encryption Method
Symmetric encryption is a type of encryption where only one key (a secret key) is used to both encrypt and decrypt electronic data. The entities communicating via symmetric encryption must exchange the key so that it can be used in the decryption process. 
By using symmetric encryption algorithms, data is "scrambled" so that it can't be understood by anyone who does not possess the secret key to decrypt it. Once the intended recipient who possesses the key has the message, the algorithm reverses its action so that the message is returned to its original readable form. The secret key that the sender and recipient both use could be a specific password/code or it can be random string of letters or numbers that have been generated by a secure random number generator.

### Asymmetric Encryption Method
Next method which I want to talk about, it is asymmetric encryption method
Asymmetric cryptography, also known as public-key cryptography, is a process that uses a pair of related keys- one public key and one private key – to encrypt and decrypt a message and protect it from unauthorized access or use.
A public key is a cryptographic key that can be used by any person to encrypt a message so that it can only be decrypted by the intended recipient with their private key. A private key - also known as a secret key - is shared only with key's initiator.
When someone wants to send an encrypted message, they can pull the intended recipient's public key from a public directory and use it to encrypt the message before sending it. The recipient of the message can then decrypt the message using their related Private key.
If the sender encrypts the message using their private key, the message can be decrypted only using that sender's public key, thus authenticating the sender. These encryption and decryption processes happen automatically; users do not need to physically lock and unlock the message.
Many protocols rely on asymmetric cryptography, including the transport layer security (TLS) and secure sockets layer (SSL) protocols, which make HTTPS possible.
The encryption process is also used in software programs that need to establish a secure connection over an insecure network, such as browsers over the internet, or that need to validate a digital signature.
Increased data security is the primary benefit of asymmetric cryptography. It is the most secure encryption process because users are never required to reveal or share their private keys, thus decreasing the chances of a cybercriminal discovering a user's private key during transmission.

### Hashing Encryption Method
A few words about Hashing Encryption method
What is it?
Hashing generates a unique signature of fixed length for a data set or message. Each specific message has its unique hash, making minor changes to the information easily trackable. Data encrypted with hashing cannot be deciphered or reversed back into its original form. That’s why hashing is used only as a method of verifying data.
Many internet security experts don’t even consider hashing an actual encryption method, but the line is blurry enough to let the classification stand. The bottom line, it’s an effective way of showing that no one has tampered with the information.
Now that we have gone through the types of data encryption techniques, let us next learn the specific encryption algorithms.

### Sensitive Data, What is it?
Now, I want to say a few words about a sensitive data
Sensitive data is any data that contains sensitive information. This data must be kept safe without being accessible to anyone unless they have explicit authorization to access the data. Moreover, preventing data breaches and protecting sensitive data has become one of the highest priorities in any organization. This need has been further exemplified by increased regulatory scrutiny over data collection, storage, and security in businesses.

### Thanks
Thanks for listening. I hope, this information was helpful and useful for you!!!